CSS grid layout guide refresh: grid lines and template areas (#38003)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_grid_layout/grid_template_areas/index.md

![An image showing a simple two column layout with header and footer](4_layout.png)

> With the {{cssxref("grid-area")}} property we can assign each of these areas a name. By itself, this does not create any layout. Rather, it provided named areas to use in a layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the {{cssxref("grid-area")}} property we can assign each of these areas a name. By itself, this does not create any layout. Rather, it provides named areas to use in a layout.
```

}
```

> Having defined these names we then create the layout. This time, instead of placing items using line numbers specified on the items themselves, we create the whole layout on the grid container. Here we create a 9-column grid, then define the `hd` and `ft` to span all 9 columns, while the `sd` spans three and `main` spans six. Each spans only one row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having defined these names, we then create the layout. This time, instead of placing items using line numbers specified on the items themselves, we create the whole layout on the grid container. Here we create a 9-column grid and specify that the `hd` and `ft` areas span all 9 columns, while `sd` spans three and `main` spans six. Each area spans only one row.
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Leaving_a_grid_cell_empty', '300', '330') }}

In order to make the layout neater we can use multiple `.` characters. As long as there is at least one white space between the full stops it will be counted as one cell. For a complex layout there is a benefit to having the rows and columns neatly aligned. It means that you can actually see, right there in the CSS, what this layout looks like.

## Spanning multiple cells

> In our example each of the areas spans multiple grid cells and we achieve this by repeating the name of that grid area multiple times with white space between. You can add extra white space in order to keep your columns neatly lined up in the value of `grid-template-areas`. You can see that we have done this in order that the `hd` and `ft` line up with `main`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our example, each area spans multiple grid cells and we achieve this by repeating the name of that grid area multiple times with white space between. You can add extra white space to keep your columns neatly lined up in the value of `grid-template-areas`. You can see that we have done this so that the `hd` and `ft` areas line up with `main`.
```

}
```

> We can then redefine that layout inside [media queries](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_media_queries/Using_media_queries) to go to our two columns layout, and perhaps take it to a three column layout if the available space is even wider. Note that for the wide layout we keep my nine column track grid, we redefine where items are placed using `grid-template-areas`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can then redefine that layout inside [media queries](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_media_queries/Using_media_queries) to go to our two columns layout, and perhaps take it to a three column layout if the available space is even wider. Note that for the wide layout, we keep the nine-column track grid, redefining where items are placed using `grid-template-areas`.
```

</div>
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Displaying_the_image_on_the_other_side_of_the_box', '300', '105') }}

## Grid definition shorthands

Having looked at various ways of placing items on our grids and many of the properties used to define grid, this is a good time to take a look at a couple of shorthands that are available for defining the grid and many things about it all in one line of CSS.

These can quickly become difficult to read for other developers, or even your future self. However they are part of the specification and it is likely you will come across them in examples or in use by other developers, even if you choose not to use them.

> Before using any shorthand it is worth remembering that shorthands not only enable the setting of many properties in one go, they also **reset** everything that you do not, or cannot set in the shorthand to their initial values. Therefore if you use a shorthand, be aware that it may reset things you have applied elsewhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using any shorthand it is worth remembering that shorthands not only enable the setting of many properties in one go, but they also **reset** everything that you do not (or cannot) set in the shorthand to their initial values. Therefore if you use a shorthand, be aware that it may reset things you have applied elsewhere.
```

The two shorthands for the grid container are the explicit grid shorthand {{cssxref("grid-template")}} and the grid definition shorthand {{cssxref("grid")}} .

### `grid-template`

The {{cssxref("grid-template")}} shorthand property sets the following longhand properties:

- {{cssxref("grid-template-rows")}}
- {{cssxref("grid-template-columns")}}
- {{cssxref("grid-template-areas")}}

> The property is referred to as the _explicit grid shorthand_ because it is setting those things that you control when you define an explicit grid, and not those which impact any implicit row or column tracks that might be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The property is referred to as the _explicit grid shorthand_ because it sets values that you control when you define an explicit grid, and not those that impact any implicit row or column tracks that might be created.
```

}
```

We will revisit the other functionality offered by this shorthand when we take a look at [auto-placement in grid layout](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout/Auto-placement_in_grid_layout) and the `grid-auto-flow` property.

> If you've been working along the [grid guides](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout#guides), you should be in a position to create grid layouts using [line-based placement](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout/Grid_layout_using_line-based_placement) or [named areas](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout/Grid_layout_using_named_grid_lines). Now let's take a look at creating [grid layouts using named grid lines](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout/Grid_layout_using_named_grid_lines).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Summary

If you've been working through the [grid guides](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout#guides), you should already be able to create grid layouts using [line-based placement](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout/Grid_layout_using_line-based_placement) or [named areas](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout/Grid_layout_using_named_grid_lines). In the next guide, we'll look at creating [grid layouts using named grid lines](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout/Grid_layout_using_named_grid_lines).
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure if "Summary" is a suitable title for this section given the content. Maybe add a bit of text to turn it into more of a summary, or choose a better title? I feel like it needs one, as it is a separate bit of content from the previous section.

Author: Did "Next steps" instead (that's used in other guides)

Reviewer: Works for me.

> If you've been working along the [grid guides](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout#guides), you should be in a position to create grid layouts using [line-based placement](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout/Grid_layout_using_line-based_placement) or [named areas](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout/Grid_layout_using_named_grid_lines). Now let's take a look at creating [grid layouts using named grid lines](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout/Grid_layout_using_named_grid_lines).

Author: ```suggestion
## Next steps

If you've been working along the [grid guides](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout#guides), you should be in a position to create grid layouts using [line-based placement](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout/Grid_layout_using_line-based_placement) or [named areas](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout/Grid_layout_using_named_grid_lines). Now let's take a look at creating [grid layouts using named grid lines](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_grid_layout/Grid_layout_using_named_grid_lines).
```
